# P106 Spectra Analyzer

The notebook provides the source code for all the analysis peformed on the spectra of hundreds of low-mass stars in the central clusters of the Carina Nebula for the ESO programme ID **106.212B.001**.

Note: Versions <8.5 of `P106_spectra_analyzer` have not been recovered from data loss and thus are not included.

## The data
The data can be downloaded from the ESO science archive: 
https://archive.eso.org/cms.html

The PID is [106.212B.001](https://archive.eso.org/wdb/wdb/eso/sched_rep_arc/query?progid=106.212B.001) (that link may take you straight to the dataset if google cooperates). 

For users unfamiliar with reducing ESO data with ESO pipelines, to successfully reduce data, in general you need three "types" of data files:

1. The *RAW science files* generated by the executed OBs
2. *Associated RAW calibration files*, either acquired as part of the science OB (but this is unusual for GIRAFFE) or (more usually) acquired in the daytime     before or after the observations -- often these are taken everyday after the science observations (e.g. BIAS frames) but some are valid for several days, so may be taken 1 or more days before or after the science.
3. *Static calibrations*: these are usually delivered with the pipeline installation

For esoreflex, the RAW science and calibration files should usually be "found" in the directory (or subdirectories of) the directory pointed to by RAW_DATA_DIR in the main canvas. By default this variable points to the demo data sets location. One changes this to point at other data sets.

The static calibrations should usually be "found" in the directory (or subdirectories of) the directory pointed to by CALIB_DATA_DIR in the main canvas. One usually does not need to (ever) change this.

Download the RAW data from the ESO Science Archive Facility (SAF) and the associated calibration files. Please see [this CalSelector webpage](http://archive.eso.org/cms/application_support/calselectorInfo.html) to see how to use the CalSelector service that automates the process of associating calibrations to science files for downloading from the ESO SAF. In step 4 of the procedure documented at the Calselector webpage, be sure to selected the associated raw calibrations, NOT the associated processed calibrations, as the GIRAFFE workflow, like most of the ESO instrument pipelines, can not make use of processed calibrations (and the will more likely confuse the workflow and cause it to crash).


## The pipeline
The [pipeline](https://eso.org/sci/software/pipelines/) to reduce data from GIRAFFE/FLAMES is available for installation from ESO.

## The source catalog
For reference, the source catalog -- where we identified the stars to observe -- is [Hur et al. 2012](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2012AJ....143...41H/abstract). `table1.dat` lists the `IDs` of all sources in the catalog with spectral information. 

For example, the star named "998" from the data collected under 106.212B.001 should correspond to star 998 in the Hur et al. catalog. 
